docs: MCP for Nondevs Blog (#1910)
block/goose: documentation/blog/2025-03-28-mcp-nondevs/index.md

Let's say you're looking for ways to use AI at work to become more efficient and save as much time as possible. So you go off and learn about large language models (LLMs) like OpenAI or Claude, and start chatting with one. It's amazing being able to chat with AI and have it instantly answer questions or have it tell you how to do something, but how about getting the AI to do stuff for you?

Now there are AI agents, or AI assistants, that can take actions and make decisions for you. But in order to have your AI agent interact with your systems, like Google Drive, Asana, or Slack, there wasn't a standard way to do it. At least not without figuring it out from scratch each time you needed your AI agent to work with what you need it to work with. That's super tedious.

That's exactly where MCP comes in. Best part is, you don't need to be a developer to start using them! MCP essentially allows you to give AI agents access to your external systems without having to code. You can think of MCP as the connector for a system and your AI agent, or like the USB-C of AI integrations.

## MCP Servers You Should Try Right Now

> So what MCP servers are out there, and which ones should I try first? With [over 3000 MCP servers](https://glama.ai/mcp/servers) you can connect to, here is your top list of popular MCP servers you should try:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So what can you connect your AI agent to? MCP Servers! MCP servers give your agent access to your tools. With [over 3000 MCP servers](https://glama.ai/mcp/servers) you can connect to, here is your top list of popular MCP servers you should try:
```

mcp server was introduced but is likely not a term the audience is familiar with

> 

Reviewer: for each of the extensions below, you should link to our tutorials instead of the github repo. since the audience is nondevs, the github readme will be overwhelming

---
title: "MCP Explained for Non-Developers"
description: Learn what MCP or Model Context Protocol is and how anyone can use it to save time on tasks.
authors: 
    - tania
---

![blog cover](mcp_nondevs.png)

MCP this, MCP that, what exactly is it, and can you use them if you're not a developer? 🤔

<!--truncate-->

# What is MCP?

MCP stands for [Model Context Protocol](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/introduction), an open standard created by Anthropic.

Let's say you've been tasked to use AI as much as you can at work, to save as much time as possible. So you go off and learn about large language models (LLMs) like OpenAI or Claude, and start chatting with one. It's amazing being able to chat with AI and have it instantly answer questions or have it tell you how to do something, but how about getting the AI to do stuff for you?

> Now there are AI agents, or AI systems, that can take actions and make decisions for you. But in order to have your AI agent interact with your systems, like Google Drive, Asana, or Slack, there wasn't a standard way to do it. At least not without figuring it our from scratch each time you needed your AI agent to work with what you need it to work with. For one that's super tedious.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now there are AI agents, or AI systems, that can take actions and make decisions for you. But in order to have your AI agent interact with your systems, like Google Drive, Asana, or Slack, there wasn't a standard way to do it. At least not without figuring it out from scratch each time you needed your AI agent to work with what you need it to work with. For one that's super tedious.
```

That's exactly where MCP comes in. Best part is, you don't need to be a developer to start using them! MCP essentially allows you to give AI agents access to your external systems without having to code. You can think of MCP as the "glue" in between a system and your AI agent, or like the USB-C of AI integrations.

> # Using MCP is SO Easy

Reviewer 2: hmm this section idk why but reading it I didn't make me feel like oh yea easy it made me think "wait so how do i do it??" might just be the wording idk

Author: I can see that now that I'm looking at it! Just changed it up with my recent push, lemme know what you think!

It's also super easy to start using them! All you have to do is:
1. Choose your desired MCP server
2. Configure access permissions
3. Let your MCP-enabled AI agent (like Goose) handle the rest

Now whether it's files on your computer, a browser you have open, a Google Sheet of marketing data, or anything else, you can use MCP to have your AI agent communicate with practically anything.

# MCP Servers You Should Try Right Now

> So what MCP servers are out there, and which ones should I try first? With [over 3000 MCP servers](https://www.pulsemcp.com/servers) you can connect to, here is your top list of popular MCP servers you should try:

Author: Agreed. Added <3

- **[Google Drive](https://github.com/rishipradeep-think41/drive-mcp)**: File access and search capabilities for Google Drive
- **[Slack](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/servers/tree/main/src/slack)**: Channel management and messaging capabilities
- **[Google Maps](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/servers/tree/main/src/google-maps)**: Location services, directions, and place details
- **[Tavily Web Search](https://github.com/RamXX/mcp-tavily)**: Web and local search using Tavily's Search API
- **[Asana](https://github.com/roychri/mcp-server-asana)**: View asana tasks, projects, workspaces, and/or comments
- **[Speech](https://github.com/Kvadratni/speech-mcp)**: Real-time voice interaction, audio/video transcription, text-to-speech conversion and more
- **[Git](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/servers/tree/main/src/git)**: Tools to read, search, and manipulate Git repositories
- **[Fetch](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/servers/tree/main/src/fetch)**: Web content fetching and conversion for efficient LLM usage

> This quick list should give you an idea of all the ways you can now use AI agents with your workflow. You can also explore community favorites in [handy MCP directories](https://dev.to/techgirl1908/my-favorite-mcp-directories-573n), or check out these [Goose tutorials](https://block.github.io/goose/docs/category/tutorials) showing you exactly how you can use some of these popular MCP servers with Goose.

Reviewer 2: might be cool to add the tip that they could use the goose tutorial extension to walk them through using extension and building some

Author: I think so too. Added, lemme know what you think!

---
title: "MCP Explained for Non-Developers"
description: Learn what MCP or Model Context Protocol is and how anyone can use it to save time on tasks.
authors: 
    - tania
---

![blog cover](mcp_nondevs.png)

MCP this, MCP that, what exactly is it, and can you use them if you're not a developer? 🤔

<!--truncate-->

> # What is MCP?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What is MCP?
```

inline main headers should be H2 (##) and sub headers should be H3 (###)

MCP stands for [Model Context Protocol](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/introduction), an open standard created by Anthropic.

> Let's say you've been tasked to use AI as much as you can at work, to save as much time as possible. So you go off and learn about large language models (LLMs) like OpenAI or Claude, and start chatting with one. It's amazing being able to chat with AI and have it instantly answer questions or have it tell you how to do something, but how about getting the AI to do stuff for you?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's say you're looking for ways to use AI at work to become more efficient and save as much time as possible. So you go off and learn about large language models (LLMs) like OpenAI or Claude, and start chatting with one. It's amazing being able to chat with AI and have it instantly answer questions or have it tell you how to do something, but how about getting the AI to do stuff for you?
```

> Now there are AI agents, or AI systems, that can take actions and make decisions for you. But in order to have your AI agent interact with your systems, like Google Drive, Asana, or Slack, there wasn't a standard way to do it. At least not without figuring it out from scratch each time you needed your AI agent to work with what you need it to work with. For one that's super tedious.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now there are AI agents, or AI assistants, that can take actions and make decisions for you. But in order to have your AI agent interact with your systems, like Google Drive, Asana, or Slack, there wasn't a standard way to do it. At least not without figuring it out from scratch each time you needed your AI agent to work with what you need it to work with. For one that's super tedious.
```

> That's exactly where MCP comes in. Best part is, you don't need to be a developer to start using them! MCP essentially allows you to give AI agents access to your external systems without having to code. You can think of MCP as the "glue" in between a system and your AI agent, or like the USB-C of AI integrations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That's exactly where MCP comes in. Best part is, you don't need to be a developer to start using them! MCP essentially allows you to give AI agents access to your external systems without having to code. You can think of MCP as the connector for a system and your AI agent, or like the USB-C of AI integrations.
```

> # Adding MCP Servers is SO Easy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Adding MCP Servers
```

I try not to use terms like "easy" and definitely dont stress it. Because if anyone finds it difficult, they'll give up - thinking everyone else finds this SO easy but them

Author: That's so true! no need to sell it hard otherwise, and you can't guarantee everyone's experience will be like yours!

> To start adding MCP servers to your AI agent is actually super simple. The hardest part is configuration, and even that is pretty straightforward. For this example, we'll use Goose as our AI agent. All you have to do to add an MCP to Goose is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The tool that connects AI agents to different apps and services so they can work together automatically is called an **MCP Server**. I'll walk you through how to add MCP Servers to your AI agent. For this example, we'll use Goose as our AI agent. To add an MCP to Goose:
```

> 1. [Install Goose](https://block.github.io/goose/docs/getting-started/installation), then [configure the LLM of your choice](https://block.github.io/goose/docs/getting-started/providers) (OpenAI, Anthropic, etc.).

Reviewer: none of these steps are simple 😩 How would a novice know which LLM to use, or where to find the model name? How would they know where to pick an MCP server? Most of the time, the installation instructions are bare json snippets. how do they know how to enable it?

basically, a non-dev will leave with more questions than answers. I suggest rewriting this section to just enable an existing built-in extension instead of adding a new one. OR if you want to add a new one, you need to pick one of the tutorials and copy the steps from there since there's 1-click installers

Author: The steps I started with was like "choose your MCP, follow its installation instructions in Goose, let Goose do the rest" but that also left more questions than answers.

Ughhhhhhhh I'll change it

Author: Thank you Angie! After sitting on it Friday, I agree that there doesn't need to be any step by step / tutorial here. Takes away from the excitement if it's too confusing too. Thank you!

- **[Asana](https://github.com/roychri/mcp-server-asana)**: View asana tasks, projects, workspaces, and/or comments
- **[Speech](https://github.com/Kvadratni/speech-mcp)**: Real-time voice interaction, audio/video transcription, text-to-speech conversion and more
- **[Git](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/servers/tree/main/src/git)**: Tools to read, search, and manipulate Git repositories
- **[Fetch](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/servers/tree/main/src/fetch)**: Web content fetching and conversion for efficient LLM usage

This quick list should give you an idea of all the ways you can now use AI agents with your workflow. You can also explore community favorites in [handy MCP directories](https://dev.to/techgirl1908/my-favorite-mcp-directories-573n), or check out these [Goose tutorials](https://block.github.io/goose/docs/category/tutorials) showing you exactly how you can use some of these popular MCP servers with Goose. You can even use [Goose's Tutorial extension](https://block.github.io/goose/docs/tutorials/tutorial-extension) to get extra help walking you through using extensions or building them.

> # The Possibilities Are Endless

Reviewer: link to Ebony's "how to tell if an MCP is safe" blog post somewhere in your post
